---
layout:	post
title:	"CAVE"
date:	2020-11-02
---

# Introduction
It has been a little over a year and a half since I joined SendGrid. I was onboarded a junior database engineer with the primary goal to learn as much as possible, do some grunt work, and take some load off of the principal and senior engineer. Especially as there was plans to ramp up work off of a contractor to an inside team. That is what I was hired on for. However, if you know me in a personal sense, I learn quickly by watching but it is not how I deeply learn. I am able to mimick decently, perhaps able to perhaps in lamence capabilities right off the start with a learning and improvement curve as if its log base 2.

## Learning curve
Learning the basics was no problem, in fact, I would not have considered myself a "junior" in the terms of fresh out of college. Technology has been a fasicnation and passion of mine for some time, realistically kicking it in to high gear as of 2017. Really delving into things and really getting things done, instead of knowing surface level of many different things and can kind of get things done. This, albeit junior-esque, really thrusted me past that junior expectation that was expected of me. Linux and SQL, programming and bash, etc. I proved I was not a junior and it took some time to convince. However, one thing that was acknowledged was my hunger to learn.

## RDBMS
Relational databases are quite complex. When thrown into a business production environment where millions of queries are being run with hundreds to thousands of gigabytes of data, things get complicated. There are general rights-wrongs in use cases, however when it comes to finite things like tuning configurations, it's a right and/or wrong statement. It's a "yes perhaps, maybe, possibly", where uncertainty is strong. Soft skills though can easily be mimicked based on observation of others. A "senior/staff" engineer mostly does engineering work, beyond that? Principle and whatnot, thats where broad-term behavior is expected. Convincing other teams, influencing team/department/other team decisions, where putting-the-foot down is a responsibility. Of course this is generalizing but my overall gist is the soft skills required to complete thos responsibilities is one that flows with me decently. Observation and mimicking only goes so far however it is key to boost you in that area. I asked the VP of engineering once why he chose to go into management rather than stay an engineer. His answer was that people are more complicated to manage than software. You could argue against this with a database and frankly, the typical dba response of "yes well no, maybe, possibly" would kick in. Too many caveats. Management is a path I was go into, but I don't want to just go into it, I want to go into it with the right mindset and skillset. Soft skills is a must to succeed and for your team to succeed. Naturally, asking questions about that was much easier than MySQL. Simply because you can look up the documentation compared to situational. If that makes sense.

All in all, one thing I learned recently is using, arguably, a social engineering form to move up in the ladder. When in a corporate structure, each person had their responsibilities and incentives. The higher you go, incentives get stronger and stronger. That is something you can use. Say, the manager of your team's job is to help you succeed, get projects done, and answer any questions you have and draw the line. This may be their responsibilities but their incentives would be to deliver projects with quality, quantity, and continue to grow strong engineers, gate the bad decisions and offer good decisions consulted by the team, to their manager but in this case lets say director. Now the director, perhaps the job is about seeing a 2 year plan in the works to be smooth, as well as ensure the department is in budget, automate or improve areas to be more efficient, etc. Save the company money and produce money at a low level. Their incentive really is to perhaps their VP or GM to deliver those projects with lower costs and increased revenue within 1-2-3 year plans. Great, now we're at the VP. VP in this case lets say reports to the CTO whom CTO reports to COO and COO reports to CEO. The critical difference here that is relevant is the VP's job is to make sure the business or product grows at an expected YoY rate, along those lines. The CTO/COO perhaps is to ensure the product really makes money, asking tough questions ruthlessly. However, that is not too important in this case.

The overall position in utilizing "social engineering" in a ladder listed above is finding the incentives and being able to solve it up until its relevancy. As an engineer, as great as it may be, the problems of a CTO are vastly different then the problems I encounter. The relevancy is the point where any problem you solve wouldn't necessary "solve" the CTO/COO/CEO's problem. However, going 2 above may be the sweet spot, 3 if you can. We know the incentives of our manager and their boss (director). Let's say a project comes in from up above saying we need to move a database cluster to AWS Aurora. If I was a junior engineer, my mindset would be "ok let's see how to do that". A senior engineer's mindset would see problems in going from Point A to Point B. A principle's mindset would see long-term problems. Of course those two mindsets can blend and it's not a strict layout. There is where my soft skills improvement could kick in along with observations. I've sat back and listened enough to understand there is a method to bite back on a bad idea that is being asked of the team. To note, there is a line where simply no matter what you can say, it'll happen. However, many cases you can make a case that would revert that idea. Much of this could be covered in "How to win friends and influence people" to a point, but the case I am making here to learning as an engineer to inform my manager the negatives of a project and how to give them ammunition to fight the director. In hopes of the director understanding the consequences and goes from there. The question I first asked myself is the business value. Does this increase or decrease business value? The broadness can be applied in real dollars to engineer time, consequence of failing or lack of support to ensure a solid transition. In a solid engineering environment there is likely a process already in place to help prevent these kind of decisions. But I wanted to do my own and no doubt someday this will be applicable once I become a manager.

Cost
Analysis
Value
Explain

CAVE

Simple and perhaps can be redundant, but my overall point is the redundancy in this acronym. Cost-analysis is used frequently together, which could blend in with value but I would argue they can be different.

Cost: Real dollars. How much will this cost? Engineer's time, L&E, maintanance, anything that you can tie dollars too.

Analysis: Point A to Point B, variables, caveats, roadblocks, dependencies, etc.

Value: What does this bring to the business? Could be profits, engineers time, notority, requested feature, PR, whatever it may be. Just what does it bring to the company.

Explain: This is key. You can throw numbers and let them speak for themselves but often that doesn't really get the homerun. It's the delivery tailed to the incentive of whom you are speaking too. What is it that they need to deliver and how would or wouldn't this idea/project fulfill those incentives?

Now, this isn't applicable in all cases and there are many processes in place to fulfill exactly this acronym, but hardly do I see anyone putting this in simple adjectives/nouns/verbs that could be self-explanatory at the very least and accessible. The goal here is engineering is beyond being able to do or understand the technical problem, but also the business problem. That puts you a step above.